[FLINK-22171][sql-client][docs] Update the SQL Client doc (#15595)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/dev/table/sqlClient.md

- uses the blink planner in streaming mode for running statements and a parallelism of 1,
- runs exploratory queries in the `table` result mode,
- and makes some planner adjustments around join reordering and spilling via configuration options.

When using -i option to submit SQL file, the type of the statement is limited. It only allow users to execute statement:
- DDL(CREATE/DROP/ALTER)
- USE CATALOG/DATABASE
- LOAD/UNLOAD MODULE
- SET command
- RESET command

to build the execution environment.

When execute queries or insert statement, please enter the interactive mode or use the -f option to submit the SQL statements.

<span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> If SQL Client meets errors when execute initialization file, SQL Client will exit with error messages.

Use SQL Client to submit job
----------------------------

SQL Client allows users to submit jobs either within the CLI session or using -f option to submit sql file.

In both modes, SQL Client supports to parse and execute all types of the Flink supported SQL statements.

### Interactive Mode

In interactive mode, the SQL Client reads user inputs and executes the statement when meets the statement splitter.

> When execute the statement succeeds, the SQL Client will print the message to inform. Otherwise, the SQL Client will
> print the causes why the execution fails. For detailed exception stack, please set the `sql-client.verbose` true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In interactive mode, SQL Client will print success message when statement is executed successfully. On the other hand, SQL Client will print error message if the execution is failed. By default, the error message only contains a cause. In order to print the full exception stack for debugging, please set the `sql-client.verbose` to true through `SET sql-client.verbose = true;`.
```

### Execute SQL Files

> When start up the SQL Client with -f option, the SQL Client will split the content of the specified file into multiple statements and submit them line by line.
> The SQL Client will print all the messages as the message printed in the interactive mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL Client supports to execute a SQL script file with the `-f` option. SQL Client will execute statements one by one in the SQL script file and print execution messages for each executed statements. Once a statement is failed, the SQL Client will exist and all the remaining statements will not be executed. 
```

An example of such a file is presented below.

```sql
CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE users (
  user_id BIGINT,
  user_name STRING,
  user_level STRING,
  region STRING,
  PRIMARY KEY (user_id) NOT ENFORCED
) WITH (
  'connector' = 'upsert-kafka',
  'topic' = 'users',
  'properties.bootstrap.servers' = '...',
  'key.format' = 'csv',
  'value.format' = 'avro'
);

-- set sync mode
SET table.dml-sync=true;

-- set the job name
SET pipeline.name=SqlJob;

-- set the queue that the job submit to
SET yarn.application.queue=root;

-- set the job parallism
SET parallism.default=100;

-- restore from the specific savepoint path
SET execution.savepoint.path=/tmp/flink-savepoints/savepoint-cca7bc-bb1e257f0dab;

INSERT INTO pageviews_enriched
SELECT *
FROM pageviews AS p
LEFT JOIN users FOR SYSTEM_TIME AS OF p.proctime AS u
ON p.user_id = u.user_id;
```
This configuration:

- defines a temporal table source `users` that reads from a CSV file,
- set the properties, e.g job name,
- set the savepoint path,

> - submit a sql job that load the savepoint from the specified savepoint path.

Reviewer: Would be better to separate them into different sections, becuase they are frequently asked questions.

<span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> Comparing to interactive mode, SQL Client will stop execution and exits when meets errors.

Build pipelines with SQL Client
-----------------------------

> By default the SQL Client submit the `INSERT INTO` statement to a Flink cluster in detached mode. These queries produce their results into an external system instead of the SQL Client. This allows for dealing with higher parallelism and larger amounts of data. The CLI itself does not have any control over a detached query after submission.

Reviewer: I think this description is describing sync/async mode, would be better to move them to `Execute DML Statements one by one` section (also the example).

### Execute a batch of SQL statements

Sometimes it's prefer to batch insert statements and optimize/execute the batched statements together. In SQL Client, it supports to parse and execute statement set in SQL.

```text
Flink SQL> BEGIN STATEMENT SET;
[INFO] Begin a statement set.

Flink SQL> INSERT INTO MySink1 SELECT * FROM MySource1;
[INFO] Add SQL update statement to the statement set.

Flink SQL> INSERT INTO MySink2 SELECT * FROM MySource1;
[INFO] Add SQL update statement to the statement set.

Flink SQL> END;
[INFO] Submitting SQL update statement to the cluster...
[INFO] Execute statement in sync mode. Please wait for the execution finish...
[INFO] Complete execution of the SQL update statement.
```

<span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> It's allowed to add `INSERT` statements into the statement set only.

### Execute DML Statements one by one

> Sometimes it's better to execute statements one by one. In SQL Client, it can use the option `table.dml-sync` to wait for the job finishes.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

By default, SQL Client executes DML statements asynchronously. That means, SQL Client will submit a job for the DML statement to a Flink cluster, and not wait for the job to be finished. So that SQL Client can submit multiple jobs at the same time. This can be useful in streaming mode, because streaming mode is long running. 

However, for batch users, it's more common that the next DML statement requires to wait for the previous DML statement to be finished. In order to execute DML statements synchronously, you can set `table.dml-sync` option to true in SQL Client.

```text

> Flink SQL> SET table.dml-sync = true;

Reviewer: Would be better to also show the INSERT INTO behavior when dml-sync is false.

[INFO] Session property has been set.

Flink SQL> INSERT INTO MyTableSink SELECT * FROM MyTableSource;
[INFO] Submitting SQL update statement to the cluster...
[INFO] Execute statement in sync mode. Please wait for the execution finish...
[INFO] Complete execution of the SQL update statement.
```

<span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> It's supported to cancel the running job by CTRL + C;

{{< top >}}

Compatibility
-------------

> To be compatible with before, SQL Client still supports to import the YAML file and allows to SET the key in YAML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be compatible with before, SQL Client still supports to initialize with environment YAML file and allows to SET the key in YAML file.
```

When set the key defined in YAML file, the SQL Client will print the warning messages to inform.

```text
Flink SQL> SET execution.type = batch;
[WARNING] The specified key 'execution.type' is deprecated. Please use 'execution.runtime-mode' instead.
[INFO] Session property has been set.
```

When using `SET` command to print the properties, the SQL Client will also print all the properties.

> To distinguish the deprecated key, the sql client use the '[DEPRECATED]' as the identifier.deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To distinguish the deprecated key, the sql client use the '[DEPRECATED]' as the identifier is deprecated.
```

However, for batch users, it's more common that the next DML statement requires to wait util the
previous DML statement finishes. In order to execute DML statements synchronously, you can set
`table.dml-sync` option true in SQL Client.

```sql
Flink SQL> SET table.dml-sync = true;
[INFO] Session property has been set.

Flink SQL> INSERT INTO MyTableSink SELECT * FROM MyTableSource;
[INFO] Submitting SQL update statement to the cluster...
[INFO] Execute statement in sync mode. Please wait for the execution finish...
[INFO] Complete execution of the SQL update statement.
```

<span class="label label-danger">Attention</span>  If you want to terminate the job, just type `CTRL-C` to cancel the execution.

### Start a SQL Job from a savepoint

Flink supports to start the job with specified savepoints. In SQL Client, it's allow to use `SET` command
to specify the path to the savepoints.

```sql

> Flink SQL> SET execution.savepoint.path=/tmp/flink-savepoints/savepoint-cca7bc-bb1e257f0dab;
> [INFO] Session property has been set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flink SQL> SET execution.savepoint.path=/tmp/flink-savepoints/savepoint-cca7bc-bb1e257f0dab;
[INFO] Session property has been set.

-- all the following DML statements will be restroed from the specified savepoint path
Flink SQL> INSERT INTO ...
```

Reviewer: apply this change?

```

> When the path is specified, Flink will try to restore the state from the savepoint when execute statements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the savepoint path is specified, Flink will try to restore the state from the savepoint when executing all the following DML statements.
```

> SQL Client also supports to disable restore from the savepoint by `RESET` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the savepoint path configuration will affect all the following DML statements, you can also use `RESET` command to reset this configuraiton, i.e. disable restoring from savepoint. 
```

```sql
Flink SQL> RESET execution.savepoint.path;
[INFO] Session property has been reset.
```

For more details about creating and managing savepoints, please refer to [Job Lifecycle Management]({{< ref "docs/deployment/cli" >}}#job-lifecycle-management).

### Define a Custom Job Name

> SQL Client supports to name every submitted job through `SET` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SQL Client supports to define job name for queries and DML statements through `SET` command.
```

```sql

> Flink SQL> SET pipeline.name=SqlJob;;
> [INFO] Session property has been set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flink SQL> SET pipeline.name= 'kafka-to-hive' ;
[INFO] Session property has been set.

-- all the following DML statements be defined to the specified job name.
Flink SQL> INSERT INTO ...
```

```

> <span class="label label-danger">Attention</span> Please set the name before submitting the job.

Reviewer: I think, in most cases, the default job name works well. We don't need to suggest users specifying job name for every statements (that's quite trivial). 

```suggestion
Because the job name configuration will affect all the following DML statements, you can also use `RESET` command to reset this configuraiton, i.e. use default job names. 
```

> If the name is not specified, SQL Client uses the default name for the submitted job, e.g. use 'collect'

Reviewer: I think INSERT INTO is a better example, which is also mainly used in production. 

```suggestion
If the `pipeline.name` configuraiton is not specified, SQL Client will generate a default name for the submitted job, e.g. 'insert-into_<sink_table_name>' for `INSERT INTO` statements. 
```

for the query job.

If you want to use the default strategy to name jobs, please use the `RESET` command to clear the value of the option `pipeline.name`.

```sql
Flink SQL> RESET pipeline.name;

> [INFO] Session property has been reset.

Reviewer: Move this before the paragraph of explaining default job name.
